---
author: caetano souto maior
title: "Teaching & Training"
layout: default
---

We provide hands-on courses on how to convert generic conceptual problems into rigorous, scientific, quantitative frameworks -- from the experimental design and generation of the data, to the choice of the mathematical/statistical tools and interpretation of the analyses.
The courses can be adapted to a range of backgrounds, proficiency, and availability of time.
Although they have a common core that can be combined and blended to some extent, our curriculum is canonically divided into three topics.

1. **<a id="thinking">From the Math to the Masses</a>** (a.k.a. _Scientific & Quantitative Thinking_) -- 8-24 classroom hours (single day to few weeks distribution):

Our flagship course. _From the Math to the Masses_ uses an approach based on real-world problems to teach and demonstrate the process of developing a vague idea into a concrete, scientific, statistically-accurate research project.
It shows how we can use statistical models (including Machine Learning/Artificial Intelligence) to formalize and solve open-ended problems, but how natural intelligence is still irreplaceable in this process.
It is the broadest and most complex of the course topics, also the most flexible and adaptable to different contexts. It can be taught as an intensive short course, or over a longer time period.
Its audience can range from less technical professionals who will gain insight into how to think scientifically and formulate real world problems as data-driven, quantifiable, algorithmic tasks all the way to very technical individuals that will benefit from acquiring a critical and scientific view of the tools of the trade.
The most important skill any professional will learn in this course is the importance of how humans and technology interact to better solve problems in their organization.


2. **<a id="math">From the Math to the Stats</a>** (a.k.a. _Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Mathematical Modeling, Statistical Inference_) -- 8-24 classroom hours (single day to few weeks distribution)

This course goes deeper into the bases of Statistical Inference and Mathematical Modeling, which underpin all Data Science, Machine Learning, and more generally any kind of analysis that uses data -- it is rooted in formal defintions while maintaining an intuitive presentation. It will also use real-world problems to work through the process of assembling all parts of a mathematical model (be it linear, nonlinear, regression, classification, machine learning, differential equations, or anything else), expanding the deterministic model structure into a statistical model, and using it in the inverse problem of identifying unknown features and mechanisms from data generated by the system.
Depending on the audience and goals of the organization, the level of detail and specialization can be tuned to the level of mathematical and coding proficiency, going from a higher level modeling approach, to a from-scratch implementation of advanced models.


3. **<a id="carpentries">The Carpentries®</a>** (a.k.a. _Coding & Data Science Fundamentals_) -- 8-16 hours

Coding has become a basic skill in today's world. For some it may seem like sorcery, or the tool of math whizzes -- nothing could be farther from the truth.
Scientific thinking can be taught to anyone, and so can coding and data science.

Like learning math or a foreign language, it is much easier when there are reasons to be motivated; when there is a context and environments that allows learners to live and breathe the curriculum.
We teach Coding and Data Science fully customized to the context of your organization; alternatively the courses can be taught following the official Software and Data [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/workshops/)® standard curricula.


The recommended formats take a lot of factors into consideration, and they can be tailored to your organization's needs.
